feat: changes to move Traces up front and clarify docs (#1039)
checkly/docs.checklyhq.com: site/content/docs/traces-open-telemetry/importing-traces/_index.md

---
title: Send your traces to Checkly
weight: 20
menu:
  platform:
    parent: "Traces (beta)"
beta: true
---

Send your 3rd party backend OpenTelemetry traces to Checkly. Inspect and drill down to why a check failed or degraded.
<!--more-->

> In [the Traces tab your Checkly account settings](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/traces): 

Reviewer: Should this be something like 'In the Traces tab, in your Checkly account settings'?

Author: ```suggestion
In [the Traces tab, in your Checkly account settings](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/traces): 
```

Author: Totally, great catch 💯

> In [the Traces tab your Checkly account settings](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/traces): 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In [the Traces tab in your Checkly account settings](https://app.checklyhq.com/settings/account/traces): 
```

1. Flip the **Basic HTTP instrumentation** toggle: 

   ![Enable basic instrumentation](/docs/images/integrations/otel/otel_basic_instrumentation.png)

   
2. Get the trace endpoint URL and the API key. Provide them to your preferred 3rd party OpenTelemetry backend.

   ![Provide URL and header with authentication](/docs/images/integrations/otel/otel_export_traces_settings.png)

> 3. Set up your OpenTelemetry collector to send only send Checkly relevant traces to Checkly. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Set up your OpenTelemetry collector to only send relevant traces to Checkly. 
```

>    * [Setting up the OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/importing-traces/sending-traces-otel-collector/) 

Reviewer: This link gives me a 404 in the preview env.

Author: ```suggestion
   * [Setting up the OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/traces-open-telemetry/importing-traces/sending-traces-otel-collector/) 
```
this one should be the right onew :)

---

> After you've set this up, you should see traces coming in the [Traces page](https://app.checklyhq.com/traces). Moreover, when opening a check, you'll see a Traces section within it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you've set this up, you should start seeing traces on the [Traces page](https://app.checklyhq.com/traces). Moreover, when opening a check, you'll see a Traces section within it.
```
